# github-actions-observability

A lambda that collects and exposes prometheus metrics for Github Actions. 
It can be configured per project or Github organization basis. 

## Deployment

```bash
sam build --use-container
sam deploy --guided
```

## Local development

Build your application with the `sam build --use-container` command.

```bash
githubwebhooks$ sam build --use-container
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `hello_world/requirements.txt`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
githubwebhooks$ sam local invoke HelloWorldFunction --event events/event.json
```

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
githubwebhooks$ sam local start-api
githubwebhooks$ curl http://localhost:3000/
```

The SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.

```yaml
      Events:
        HelloWorld:
          Type: Api
          Properties:
            Path: /hello
            Method: get
```

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
githubwebhooks$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name githubwebhooks --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the test dependencies and run tests.

```bash
githubwebhooks$ pip install -r tests/requirements.txt --user
# unit test
githubwebhooks$ python -m pytest tests/unit -v
# integration test, requiring deploying the stack first.
# Create the env variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME with the name of the stack we are testing
githubwebhooks$ AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME=<stack-name> python -m pytest tests/integration -v
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name githubwebhooks
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
